README.md, before:

# Last Call BBS: Monster Maze
A game for the Sawayama Z5 Powerlance

## Installation

Download the [monstermaze.js](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Zwergesel/last-call-bbs-monster-maze/main/monstermaze.js) file into your servers folder:
```
<HOME>\Documents\My Games\Last Call BBS\<SteamID>\servers
```

Afterwards you can connect to the server from the _Netronics Connect!_ program on your Sawayama Z5 Powerlance.

## Play in your browser

You can also play the game in a [simulated _Netronics Connect!_ terminal](https://zwergesel.github.io/last-call-bbs-monster-maze/netronics-connect.html).

## How to play

![Preview](https://i.imgur.com/S5hFiVc.jpg)

The game contains 30 levels in which you must wander through the maze and collect all diamonds without being eaten by a monster. The monsters move two spaces after each of your moves but they are stupid and only want to move either horizontally or vertically closer to you. If both are possible, they prefer horizontal moves. If neither are possible because there are walls in the way, they don't move at all.

In later levels there are also locked gates which can be opened by the walking onto switches, both by the player and the monsters. Switches can be triggered multiple times and will always close all open gates and open all closed gates simultaneously.

There's a scoring system based on the number of moves it takes you to finish each level. Grade A means you have found the best known solution.

Your progress is saved automatically.

## Version History

**Note:** When you install a new version of the game, your savegame will be invalidated and your progress will be reset.

- July 27, 2022: Version 1 of Monster Maze is released
- March 7, 2024: Version 2 of Monster Maze is released
- April 29, 2024: Version 3 of Monster Maze is released
- May 6, 2024: Version 4 of Monster Maze is released

Commit message:

v5 Release
- Add 12 new levels and rework some existing levels
- Reorder many levels to provide a better difficulty curve
- Rework the grades system to make it easier to understand
- Update tutorial texts to make it clearer
- Make disabled controls more readable
- Add explanation texts to first level
- Make background dots darker
- Allow X to cancel a running replay
- Add death by exhaustion after 999 moves

README.md, after:

# Last Call BBS: Monster Maze
A game for the Sawayama Z5 Powerlance

## Installation

Download the [monstermaze.js](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Zwergesel/last-call-bbs-monster-maze/main/monstermaze.js) file into your servers folder:
```
<HOME>\Documents\My Games\Last Call BBS\<SteamID>\servers
```

Afterwards you can connect to the server from the _Netronics Connect!_ program on your Sawayama Z5 Powerlance.

## Play in your browser

You can also play the game in a [simulated _Netronics Connect!_ terminal](https://zwergesel.github.io/last-call-bbs-monster-maze/netronics-connect.html). (Credit: Reddit user [/u/amoetodi](https://www.reddit.com/u/amoetodi))

## How to play

![Preview](https://i.imgur.com/S5hFiVc.jpg)

The game contains 42 levels in which you must wander through the maze and collect all gems without being eaten by a monster. The monsters move two spaces after each of your moves but they are stupid and only want to move closer to you as if the maze walls weren't there. If they could move both horizontally and vertically closer to you, they will always choose the horizontal move. If both directions that would take them closer to you are blocked by walls, they don't move at all.

In some levels there are gates which can be opened and closed by walking onto buttons. Both the player and the monsters can activate the buttons by stepping onto them. Buttons can be activated multiple times and will always close all open gates and open all closed gates simultaneously.

If a monster catches you, you can restart the level by pressing 'R'. You can also undo your previous moves by pressing 'U' at any time, even after you've been caught.

There's a scoring system based on the number of moves it takes you to finish each level. Three stars is the best score for each level and means you found the shortest possible solution. You can see your stats by pressing the 'S' key. If you want to see the shortest solution that you've found so far for a level, press 'X' to show a replay. You can interrupt the replay at any point by pressing 'Enter', 'Esc' or 'X' again.

Your progress is saved automatically.

## Version History

**Note:** When you install a new version of the game, your savegame will be invalidated and your progress will be reset.

- July 27, 2022: Version 1 of Monster Maze is released
- March 7, 2024: Version 2 of Monster Maze is released
- April 29, 2024: Version 3 of Monster Maze is released
- May 6, 2024: Version 4 of Monster Maze is released
- September 13, 2024: Version 5 of Monster Maze is released
